today's programs all about pulses or
dried vegetables and they're quite
extraordinary because if you're eating a
balanced diet anyway if you're eating
enough dairy foods and cereals pulses
can provide you with the same amount of
protein as meat at a fraction of the
cost and I think for this reason they're
going to play a very important part in
our diet in the future because meats
becoming more expensive and also
becoming much more scarce and we can
take a tip from some of the poorer
countries of the world who do really
delicious recipes with pulses well first
of all I'd like to run through a few
pulses with you I've got a few samples
here of course there are hundreds of
varieties but I'd like to show you one
or two to start off with first of all
chickpeas these are sometimes called
gobiins o's and these are what are used
in Greek cooking sometimes in salads and
sometimes made into a Puri which is
called hummus
next door we've got an old-fashioned
English pulse and that's dried peas and
these are the sorts that you use when
you make old fashioned peas pudding
which is served with a nice boiled bacon
joint now next door to dried peas I've
got split peas and they're in fact the
same as dried peas only they've been
what I call fileted the skins have been
taken off now there's two sorts golden
split peas and green and I've found in
my experiments that the green ones in
fact I think have a slightly better
flavor than the yellow ones then we move
on to something which to me seemed a
sort of cross between a pea and a bean
and that's a Dookie beans they're very
small tiny they have a nutty flavor and
they're nice cooked with rice either as
a salad or as a hot dish now we're
moving on to one of my favorites and
these are whole lentils sometimes
they're called green lentils sometimes
brown I call them green and brown
because that's what they are and their
whole lentils and really they have an
awful lot of really delicious flavor
much better than these next door which
are the again fileted lentils these are
the ones with the skins taken off and
just the insides and I promise you these
have only about 50% of the flavor of the
whole ones so I'd always use the whole
ones in preference
now we move into another one which is
not one of my favorites
these are haricot beans but the small
haricot beans the small round ones these
are our of baked bean fame and although
they're just as nutritious they're not
half as good in flavor as these next
door which are the long haricot beans
I've still got lentils on my fingers
there but what I'm showing you now are
the is the length of these beans which
are what the French use in dishes like
cassoulet and the Italians as well and
there are much better bargain
flavor-wise now next door I've got
butter beans here these were more
familiar with their despised in some
circles but I think they're quite good
they cook up to a nice flowery
consistency they make a creamy soup and
the only thing is if they're a bit on
the dry side you need some sauce or
something to soak into them well then
further along here I've got a first
cousin of the long white beam and that's
red kidney beans sometimes called navy
beans these are a lovely pretty red
color they taste very good and they make
up what's one of my husband's absolutely
favorite dishes and mine too and that's
chili con carne and we're going to be
cooking with those in a moment but first
of all I want to give you a word about
storing dried vegetables dried pulses
because people think because they're
dried they're just going to last forever
and I'm afraid that isn't true they
start coming into the shops they're
dried harvested dried and they arrive
here around about December and then I
think the shelf-life is a year after
that they get very tough and if you've
had them three years you'll have to cook
them three years before they'll ever get
soft again so a word about storage when
you buy them buy them from the shop with
a large turnover and store them in a jar
with a label on saying when you got them
and then you won't have any trouble in
cooking them